# AUTOPSY
## Task1: Introduction
Autopsy is an open-source and powerful digital forensics platform.
Several features within Autopsy have been developed by the Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology funding. 

The official description:
  "Autopsy is the premier open source forensics platform which is fast, easy-to-use, and capable of analysing all types of mobile devices and digital media.
  Its plug-in architecture enables extensibility from community-developed or custom-built modules.
  Autopsy evolves to meet the needs of hundreds of thousands of professionals in law enforcement, national security, litigation support, and corporate investigation."
  
## Task 2: Work Flow
Basic Workflow:
1. Create/open the case for the data source you will investigate
2. Select the data source you wish to analyze
3. Configure the ingest modules to extract artefacts from the data source
4. Review the artifacts extracted by the ingest modules
5. Create the report

**What is the file extension of the Autpsy files?**
```
.aut
```

## Task 3: Data Sources
Autposy can analyze multiple disk image formats as follows:
1. **Raw Single**: .img, .dd, .raw, .bin
2. **Raw Split**: .001, .002, .aa, .ab, etc.
3. **EnCase**: .e01, .e02, etc.
4. **Virtual Machines**: .vmdk, .vhd

* if there are multiple image files ( ie. E01, E02, E03, etc.) Autopsy only mneeds you to point to the first image file

**What is the disk image name of the "e01" format?**
```
EnCase
```

## Task 4: Ingest Modules
Essentially Ingest Modules are Autopsy plug-ins.
Each Ingest Module is designed to analyse and retrieve specific data from the drive.
You can configure Autopsy to run specific modules during the source-adding stage or later by choosing the target data source available on the dashboard. By default, the Ingest Modules are configured to run on All Files, Directories, and Unallocated Space.
You can change this setting during the module selecting step.
You can track the process with the bar appearing in the lower right corner.

* Using ingest modules after adding data sources:
1. Open the _"Run Ingest Modules"_ menu by right-clicking on the data source
2. Chosse the module to implement and click on the finsih button
3. Track the progress of implementation

* results of any **_Ingest Module_** will populate in the Results node of the tree view
* as and **_Ingest Module_** runs, alerts will appear in the **_Ingest Inbox_**

## Task 5: The User Interface I
### Tree Viewer
Comprised of **five top-level nodes:**
  * **Data Sources** - all the data will be organised as you would typically see it in a normal Windows File Explorer
  * **View** - files will be organised based on file type, MIME types, file size, etc.
  * **Results** - results from ingest modules
  * **Tags** - will displat files and/or results that have been tagged 
  * **Repoerts** - will display reports either generated by modules or the analyst
### Result Viewer
* not to be confused with the **_Results_** node
* the pane to the right of the tree view that will show additional information about a selected volume, fodler, file, etc.
* has 3 tabs: **Table, Thumbnail, Summary**
* **Thumbnail** works best with image or video files
* **Views** node will categorise files by type - **_by extension, MIME type, deleted files, and file sieze_**
* when it comes to file types, it is wise to pay close attention as adversaries could rename a file with a misleading file extension as way to obfuscate some malicious files
* instead use **_MIME_** type, this will categorise all files appropriately

### Contents Viewer
* **S = Score** will show a red eclamation point for a folder/file marked/tagged as notable and a yellow triangle pointing downward for a folder/file marked/tagged as suspicious
* **C = Comment** will have a yellow page in this field indicating that there is a comment for the selected item
* **O = Occurrence** will indicate how many times this file/folder has been seen in the past cases ( this will require the Central Repository)

### Keyword Search































